.TH comedi_config 8 ""
.SH NAME
comedi_config \- COMEDI configuration utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B comedi_config
[\fI\,OPTION\/\fR]... /dev/comedi\fIN\fR \fI\,driver\/\fR
[\fI\,param1\/\fR[,\fI\,param2\/\fR]...]
.br
.B comedi_config
[\fI\,OPTION\/\fR]... -r /dev/comedi\fIN\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcomedi_config\fR is used to configure \fBcomedi\fR drivers.
You must have \fBcomedi\fR support compiled
into your kernel or loaded as a separate module in order
to use this utility.
Each control and measurement device is associated with a
particular \fBcomedi\fR device file \fB/dev/comedi\fRN, where
N is 0,1,2,3, etc.
\fBcomedi_config\fR allows you to associate a particular
driver and device with a \fBcomedi\fR device file, and also
configure driver parameters for the particular device.

\fBcomedi_config\fR can be used with optional
parameters which are driver dependent.  Parameters are
specified by comma-delimited list of integers.  The integers
may be expressed as decimal, hexadecimal (starting with 0x)
or octal (stating with 0).  In addition, a parameter may be
left blank, indicating 0.  PCI-based devices typically
require no parameters, although some allow you to specify
the bus and slot of the card to configure
as the first two parameters.
ISA-based devices typically use
the first and second parameters to indicate I/O base
address and interrupt level.

More information about the parameters required by individual
drivers can be found in the \fBcomedi\fR documentation, in
the file \fBdrivers.txt\fR, and in the
.UR http://www.comedi.org/doc/lowleveldrivers.html
Kernel drivers
.UE
section of the
.UR http://www.comedi.org/doc/index.html
\fBComedilib\fR manual
.UE .



.SH OPTIONS

\fBcomedi_config\fR recognizes the following options:
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Don't print output while running.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Print verbose output while running.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version number and exit.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-remove\fR
Remove (unconfigure) previously configured device.
.TP
\fB\-\-read-buffer\fR \fIsize\fR
Set read buffer size to
.I size
kilobytes.  The default size is 64k.
.TP
\fB\-\-write-buffer\fR \fIsize\fR
Set write buffer size to
.I size
kilobytes.  The default size is 64k.
.TP
\fB\-\-subdevice-buffer\fR \fInum\/\fR,\,\fIsize\/\fR[,\,\fInum\/\fR,\,\fIsize\/\fR]...
Set subdevice
.I num
buffer size to
.I size
kilobytes.  More than one \fInum\fR,\fIsize\fR pair may be
specified, and the option may be used several times.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-init-data\fR, \fB\-\-init-data0\fR \fIfile\fR
Upload initialization data (typically firmware) from
.I file
to board.
.TP
\fB\-\-init-data1\fR \fIfile\fR
.TP
\fB\-\-init-data2\fR \fIfile\fR
.TP
\fB\-\-init-data3\fR \fIfile\fR
Some drivers require more than one file for initialization 
data.  Use these
options to specify additional initialization data files.  
See the driver-specific documentation for further details.


.SH CONFIGURATION FILE

[This section has not been implemented yet.]

A list of device configurations can be put into the file
\fB/etc/comedi.conf\fR.  This file takes the form:

.EX
<device> <driver> <param1>,<param2>,...
.EE

These configurations will be read and performed when the
switch \fB-a\fR is used.  This is potentially useful when
run from an initialization script.

.SH EXAMPLES

A National Instruments PCI-MIO E series board can be
configured to use /dev/comedi0 using the command:

.EX
comedi_config /dev/comedi0 ni_pcimio
.EE

A National Instruments AT-MIO E series board can be
configured to use /dev/comedi3 using the command:

.EX
comedi_config /dev/comedi3 ni_atmio 0x220,3
.EE

This tells the driver that the board is configured
for I/O base 0x220 and IRQ 3.

.SH ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

Additional documentation may be found in the
.UR http://www.comedi.org/doc/install.html
Configuration section
.UE
of the
.UR http://www.comedi.org/doc/index.html
\fBComedilib\fR manual
.UE .

.SH SEE ALSO

\fBcomedi\fR(7) 

.SH VERSION

0.11.x

.SH AUTHOR

.MT ds@schleef.org
David Schleef
.ME

