.TH comedi_calibrate 8 ""
.SH NAME
\fBcomedi_calibrate\fR - COMEDI calibration utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcomedi_calibrate\fR [-f /dev/comediN]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcomedi_calibrate\fR is used to autocalibrate \fBcomedi\fR
devices.  Some \fBcomedi\fR devices have the ability to
measure internal stable voltage references and control
gains and offsets using programmable DACs.  On these devices,
\fBcomedi_calibrate\fR adjusts the programmable calibration
DACs so that the measured value of reference voltages fall
within acceptable limits.  The calibration settings are
saved to a file which can be fed to the comedi_apply_calibration()
function.

\fBComedi_calibrate\fR prints a lot of debugging information
as it runs.

.SH LIMITATIONS

\fBComedi_calibrate\fR only works on boards that it understands.
For boards that are known to have autocalibration ability,
but are not currently supported, \fBcomedi_calibrate\fR will
output basic debugging information that is useful for
the author to add support for your device.  Please send this
output to him.


.SH OPTIONS

\fBcomedi_calibrate\fR	recognizes the following options:

\fB--[no-]calibrate\fR	Perform calibration (or not).

\fB-f, --file /dev/comediN\fR	perform calibration on device \fB/dev/comediN\fR

\fB--help\fR	print help for options then exit

\fB-q, --quiet\fR	don't generate output to stdout

\fB--[no-]reset\fR	Reset (or don't reset) calibration subdevice to
a reasonable starting point before
performing calibration.  The default is \fB--reset\fR.  The
\fB--no-reset\fR option is useful if
a single calibration
pass is not sufficient, and you wish to perform another calibration
pass starting from the results of the previous pass.

\fB-S, --save-file <file path>\fR	save calibration information to specified file,
instead of default location

\fB-v, --verbose\fR	generate more verbose output to stdout, can be specified multiple times


.SH SEE ALSO

\fBcomedi\fR(7)

.SH VERSION

0.7.x

.SH AUTHOR

David Schleef, <ds@schleef.org>

